[Music]
so space is called the final frontier
and for good reason explorers used to
cross treacherous oceans and vast
deserts to unravel the secrets of the
unknown
not long ago a piece of that unknown
came to visit us in the form of a
mysterious object from a distant star
but what is it and where exactly did it
come from
is this enigmatic traveller a natural
occurrence or was it sent here by a
distant civilization from across the
stars the strange interstellar object
was first discovered by an astronomer
named Rob Warwick from the University of
Hawaii on October 19th 2017 he was
looking for asteroids and when he first
detected an object zipping through space
at 59 thousand miles per hour that's
what he thought he found but when he
went to examine recorded images from the
previous nights he noticed something
unusual about his discovery most
asteroids follow a predictable orbit
around the Sun but the object he would
later dub
Oh muha moo-ha was behaving unusually as
it darted through space not too far away
from earth first it didn't appear to be
orbiting the Sun at all in fact
researchers found that based on omo omo
is trajectory the object had originated
from somewhere beyond the solar system
and was merely passing through on its
way to parts unknown that's where it got
its name which translates roughly to
messenger from far away in Hawaii in
addition to its uncommon origin Omaha
MOA had some very unusual dimensions
while most asteroids and comets tend to
be round or at least elliptical the
reddish cylinder-shaped
object was 1312 feet long by only about
400 feet wide also a mullah MOA not only
survived an extremely close encounter
with the Sun enduring temperatures of
over 570 degrees Fahrenheit
but seem to be accelerating as it did so
if you paid attention in science class
you probably remember Newton's first law
which says that an object in motion
remains in motion until an outside force
acts upon it in space where there's
neither gravity friction nor wind
resistance an object in motion will
continue to move at the same relative
speed indefinitely until something
usually a collision with another object
causes it to stop however the same
principle works in Reverse a moving
object shouldn't start accelerating
unless something starts pushing it along
by the way there's also Fig Newtons
first law a cookie dipped in milk will
remain in milk unless extracted by the
fingers and then inserted into the mouth
YUM
but I digress could this motion thing
suggest that amoA MOA was more than just
an asteroid might our extrasolar visitor
have been sent by an intelligence from
beyond the stars perhaps it's some sort
of unmanned probe created by a far-off
civilization an interstellar equivalent
to our own Voyager program some think so
but scientists aren't quite convinced
that little green men are responsible
for our mysterious red hewed visitor
much more likely it was evaporating
gases rather than burning thrusters
propelling the object through space at
an ever-increasing speed such behavior
can be expected from a comet which sheds
water vapor as it passes close to the
Sun gaining momentum as it loops around
our nearest star for this reason o Momoa
was reclassified as a comet instead of
an asteroid but that explanation wasn't
without its problems either the most
noticeable was the absence of a visible
tail if the object was shedding water
vapor why weren't scientists able to
detect it other questions were raised
due to Omo Omo is proximity to the Sun
as it streaked across the sky
experiencing blistering heat as it flew
past at lightning speeds a dense outer
shell made from rock and
hardened dust would explain its survival
but calls into question the comet
hypothesis a typical comet is made up of
an outer shell of dust and ice
surrounding its rocky core Oh mwah mwah
meanwhile seemed to be the other way
around so if it's not a comet what is it
and why is it behaving almost exactly
like one if it is a comment where is its
tail and why does it seem to have been
turned inside out the most likely
explanation is that omo amoA used to be
a comet and what we're seeing is the
remains of its rocky core after most of
the objects water ice had been shed away
they would still need to be some ice
remaining 400 Mulla Mulla to accelerate
the way it did but if the layer is thin
enough it might not be releasing enough
dust and vapour for the tail to be
detectable even with the aid of Earth's
most advanced telescopes well that
solves one of oma mouaz biggest
mysteries it raises the question of how
the object formed to answer that we
first have to take a look at where it
came from astronomers believe that omo
amoA originates from somewhere near the
star Vega in the constellation Lyra an
Eagle shaped collection of stars visible
in both the northern and southern
hemispheres this makes it the first ever
interstellar object detected passing
through our solar system these deep
space travelers are probably quite
frequent NASA estimates one passes
through the solar system at least once a
year but omoi MOA is the first such
object large and close enough that
astronomers could detect it from earth
that alone would be enough to draw the
attention of every astronomer on the
planet
even without omo omo as other peculiar
features well it's impossible to say for
sure astronomers believe that omo amoA
is most likely just a small fragment of
a planet destroyed in a cataclysmic
event
ouch the most probable scenarios are
that its creation resulted from either
two planets colliding or a single planet
being torn apart by gravitational forces
when it passed too close to a nearby
star in the latter case the most likely
culprit is a red dwarf an extremely
dense Jupiter sized object often found
orbiting more massive stars after its
violent and relatively recent creation
Oh mwah mwah was sent tumbling and over
and through the cosmos as it progressed
along its 300,000 year journey the
object was bombarded with cosmic
radiation baked in the Rays of a
galaxies worth of stars the outer layer
of rock and dust began to harden a bit
like a giant breadstick in the
universe's large oven hmm now I'm
getting hungry this hard outer shell is
how Oh mwah mwah managed to survive its
close encounter with the Sun and
continue on its journey through space
now for anyone disappointed that our
interstellar guest isn't definitive
proof of alien life there is some good
news while researchers are certain that
omo omo ax is a natural formation that
doesn't mean it isn't carrying alien
visitors while the interior makeup of
the object is mostly unknown it's within
the realm of possibility that
extraterrestrial microbes could be
residing inside it our planet oh is its
vast oceans - comets
slamming into the earth hundreds of
millions of years ago and some
scientists believe that the first micro
organisms on Earth may have arrived by
hitching a ride inside those comets it's
possible that single-celled life forms
could survive frozen inside a moolah
more protected from damaging radiation
by the objects thick rocky outer shell
hmm that outer shell thing kind of
describes an mm doesn't it yep I
definitely am hungry well there's no way
to know for sure if this is the case
it's nice to believe that in a few
billion years Oh mwah mwah might be the
source of an entirely new civilization
somewhere among the stars the object is
currently heading away from the Sun at
high speeds and our narrow window to
effectively study it has already come to
a close as of January 2019 Oh mwah mwah
had already passed beyond the orbit of
Saturn bound for the constellation
Pegasus however it may not be the only
one of its kind if it is a piece of a
destroyed planet a single incident like
that would have produced millions of
similar fragments given the size of the
galaxy there could be trillions out
there just like it and recent
technological advancements may help us
locate similar objects in the future
since 2007 work has been underway on a
new Observatory in the mountains of
northern Chile the centrepiece of this
facility will be the brand-new large
synoptic survey telescope this massive
state-of-the-art device will be able to
capture images of the night sky with a
higher resolution than ever before
allowing astronomers to analyze
asteroids and other objects that would
have been too small or too far away to
be detected with earlier technology so
keep watching the skies because you
never know what might be out there and
I'll go raid the fridge now if you had
fun unraveling this mystery then give
this video a like and share it with your
friends let me know in the comments if
there are any other interstellar
discoveries you think need more
attention but hey don't go chasing other
weird space objects just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life